---
layout: post
title: "How to Navigate Terminal"
author: Maddie Portrey
description: Learn how to easily navigate terminal on a mac
image: /assets/images/domenico-loia-hGV2TfOh0ns-unsplash.jpg
---

Picture this: you're sitting in class, and your professor brings up their computer's Terminal. Sure, you can open up the Terminal on your computer and copy the exact commands your professor executes, but what do they all mean? What does a cat have to do with viewing a file? Why are we so interested in CDs again? Aren't diseases terminal?

Well, my dear data science reader, that's where I come in. I'm here to teach you the ins and outs of navigating the Terminal. If it's basic, necessary, and applies to a Mac, you're going to learn it here. This is not a comprehensive list of everything you need to know to get started, but it'll be pretty darn close.

### Understanding the Terminal/Command Line

First, let's establish what the Terminal is. The Terminal is a command line interface for an operating system. It's usually used by network administrators and advanced technical users who want to initiate an action not supported by the operating system's graphical user interface. "No!" you might be yelling at me through your screen, "I'm not an advanced technical user! I love my GUI!" And I get that. But while it's not a necessary tool for the casual Mac user, it offers a surprising number of uses to simple minds like us, and it's worth learning the basics.

Think of it like whispering directly into your computer's ear instead of yelling at it from a distance -- it's a more immediate way of interacting with the system that provides you a lot of power. But with great power comes great responsibility, so let's learn what we're doing so we don't accidentally damage our machines.

### Getting Started

 The command line interface, or the language you type into Terminal to interact with your Mac, is called bash. The commands we will discuss below are bash commands. To run a command, just type it at the cursor and hit return/enter to execute.

So, let's open the Terminal and get started!

Simple (but necessary) commands:

**cd : change directory**  
&ensp; cd ~ : home directory  
&ensp; cd [folder] : change directory to [folder]  
&ensp; cd - : previous directory or folder you last browsed  
&ensp; pwd : show your working directory  
&ensp; cd .. : move up to the parent directory  
&ensp; cd ../.. : move up two levels  

**ls : display the name of files and subdirectories in the directory**  
&ensp; ls -a : list all entries including those with . and ..  
&ensp; ls -1 : output the list of files in one entry per line format  
&ensp; ls -la : list detailed directory contents, including hidden files

**mkdir : make a new directory**  
&ensp; mkdir [dir] : create a new folder name [dir]  
&ensp; mkdir -p [dir]/[dir] : create nested folders  
&ensp; mkdir [dir1] [dir2] [dir3] : create several folders at once  
&ensp; mkdir "[dir]" : create a folder with a space in the filename  
&ensp; touch [file] : create a new file without any extension  

**rm : remove file or directory**  
&ensp; rmdir [dir] : delete a folder (only works if the folder is empty)  
&ensp; rm -R [dir] : delete a folder and its contents  
&ensp; rm [file] : delete a file  
&ensp; rm [file1] [file2] [file3] : delete multiple files at the same time  

**mv : move a file**  
&ensp; mv [file] [newfilename] : move/rename  
&ensp; mv [file] [dir] : move a file to the folder, possibly by overwriting an existing file  
&ensp; mv -i [file] [dir] : optional -i flag to warn you before overwriting a file  
&ensp; mv *.png ~/[dir] : move all PNG files from current folder to a different folder  

**other**  
&ensp; cat [file] : output the content of [file]  
&ensp; head [file] : output the first 10 lines of [file]  
&ensp; tail [file] : output the last 10 lines of [file]  
&ensp; cp [file] [dir] : copy a file to the folder  
&ensp; cp [file] [newfile] : copy a file to the current folder  
&ensp; cp [file]~/[dir]/[newfile] : copy a file to the folder and rename the copied file  
  
 - - - -  
  
So now you have a short introduction to some of the commands used in the Terminal. Let's do a little step-by-step exercise:  

1. Use the 'cd' command to navigate to your Documents directory:  
```
cd Documents/
```

2. Use the 'ls' command to list the contents of that folder:  
```
ls
```

3. Create a new directory with 'mkdir':  
```
mkdir terminal_practice
```

4. Create a new file with 'touch':
```
touch test.txt
```

5. Display the contents of the file with 'cat':  
```
cat test.txt
```

6. Edit the file with vi editor:  
```
vi test.txt
(add text to file -- to exit, press ESC, then type :wq to write the file and quit)
```

7. Copy the file to a new file:  
```
cp test.txt newtest.txt
```

8. Move the new file to the directory you made earlier:  
```
mv newtest.txt ~/Documents/terminal_practice/
```

9. Remove the file you just created:  
```
rm newtest.txt
```

10. Navigate back to the Documents folder and remove the directory and other file created:  
```
rmdir terminal_practice
rm test.txt
```

____

T